.TH WCH-ISP 1 wch-isp\-VERSION
.SH NAME
wch-isp \- firmware programmer for WCH microcontrollers
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B wch-isp
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.I COMMAND
.RI [ ARG ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B wch-isp
is an utility to write firmware into the flash of WCH microcontrollers, over USB or COM-port.
By default the flash content is verified after writing.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-n
Do not verify flash content after writing, verification is done by default.
.TP
.B \-p
Prints a progress during command operation.
.TP
.B \-r
Reset the microcontroller after the command is completed.
.TP
.B \-b
Do not read database.
.TP
.B \-f
Ignore if firmware size more than cached flash size (program memory).
.TP
.B \-F
Ignore if firmware size more than total flash size (program memory + const data memory).
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debug information, print raw isp commands sent over USB or COM-port.
.TP
.B \-v
Prints version information to stdout, then exits.
.TP
.B \-h, --help
Prints help message to stdout, then exits.
.TP
.BI \--port= "port [baudrate]"
Specify \fIport\fR to connect the device. It may be \fBUSB\fR or \fB/dev/ttyUSB0\fR or \fB//./COM2\fR or something else.
.TP
.BI \--device= dev
Test if connected device is \fIdev\fR and exit if they differ. \fIdev\fR may be read by \fBinfo\fR option.
.RB Example:\  --device=CH32V203G8R6
.TP
.BI \--uid= uid
Select the microcontroller that matches the \fIuid\fR.
.TP
.BI \--reset= number
Specify COM-port control pin \fInumber\fR as RESET signal. May be
.BR RTS ,\  DTR ,\  nRTS\  or\  nDTR .
.TP
.BI \--boot0= number
Specify COM-port control pin \fInumber\fR as Boot0 signal. May be 
.BR RTS ,\  DTR ,\  nRTS\  or\  nDTR .
.TP
.BI \--address= addr 
Start writing from
.IR addr .
.TP
.BI \--database-path= directory
Search device info in specified
.IR directory .
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B list
List the currently detected compatible devices.
.TP
.BI write " FILE"
Write
.I FILE
into flash, this will automatically erase sufficient flash sectors before writing to it.
.TP
.BI verify " FILE"
Verify
.I FILE
content against the flash content.
.TP
.B erase
Erase all the flash content (not implemented yet).
.TP
.B unlock
Disable flash write protection (modifies the chip configuration) (not implemented yet).
.TP
.B info
Print a device information and memory dump of the chip configuration.
.TP
.BI optionbytes " 'CMD'"
Change optionbytes. 
 Example:
.B ./wch-isp optionbytes 'RDPR=0xA5, DATA0 = 0x42'
.TP
.BI optionshow " 'CMD'"
Show changes after applying \fICMD\fR to optionbytes; do not write.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
List detected devices:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
.RB "$ " "wch-isp list"
found 0x19 0x3B ( CH32V203G8R6 ), bt ver.0206 uid = [ CD-AB-1D-36-51-BC-3B-9E ]
found 0x17 0x71 ( CH32V307RCT6 ), bt ver.0209 uid = [ 87-80-CB-26-3B-38-8D-DF ]
.EE
.in
.PP
Flash the
.B firmware.bin
file via USB,
.B \-p
enable the progress bar.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
.RB "$ " "./wch-isp --port=USB -p write firmware.bin"
Erase 1 sectors (1024 bytes)
Write: 100.0 %   Write 792 bytes: DONE
Verify: 100.0 %   Verify 792 bytes: DONE
.EE
.in
.PP
Verify the
.B firmware.bin
via COM-port (reset connected to RTS, Boot0 connected to DTR):
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
.RB "$ " "./wch-isp --port=/dev/ttyUSB0 --reset=RTS --boot0=DTR verify firmware.hex
Verify 792 bytes: DONE

.EE
.in
.PP
Unlock read-protection and write 0x42 to DATA0 field in optionbytes:
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
.RB "$ " "./wch-isp --port=/dev/tty_CH32_PROG_0 9600 optionbytes 'RDPR=0xA5 DATA0 = 0x42'"
Option bytes write:
  0x609F5AA5
  0xFF00FF42
  0xFFFFFFFF
Done


